# WorkPlacement

This project was done whilst on college placement and the idea was to create an order fulfillment system using Python and Google API's.

This problem had to be solved as it was costing the company money and customers with missed orders were unhappy. The first step was to create a manifest, somewhere where all the orders could be listed and could be ticked if completed or not. This was done via google sheets which had live cloud capability meaning it supports people editing in the cloud at the same time so everyone can see updates. This was only a partial fix as with upwards of 100 orders per day, filling in the order data for each order in google sheets manually was completely undoable. To circumvent this, a dummy Gmail account was set up and all the orders received into the shops email was forwarded to the Gmail account. A python script was set up to scrape the Gmail inbox periodically (once a minute as is allowable for commercial Gmail accounts) using the IMAP protocol and Pythons built in IMAP library to interact with the Gmail API. This program was set to filter emails based on UNREAD and then parse the email contents. The parsing was done via html decoding and then keywords were picked out through the use of regular expressions. These keywords were from the order being made online and a CSV format was then constructed with these keywords and their corresponding values. The script then interacted with the google sheets API to automatically update the spreadsheet with all data from incoming orders. This script was set to run in a loop on a dedicated machine 24/7 to ensure order consistency and thus the manifest was born.
